Q1: FDB decouples these two components so that it can separate the write and read paths for improved performance and so the two can be scaled independently. The Transaction Management System handles commits and detects when there are read-write conflicts by checking commit and read versions. The Storage system holds the actual data shards, pulling logs from the LogServers to reflect newer commits. The Storage System serves read directly, so it manages the read path.

Q2: During a write transaction, the Resolver detects read-write conflicts between concurrent transactions. This check occurs after the Sequencer returns the commit versions to the Proxy, which is forwarded to the Resolver so that it can check for conflicts. 

Q3: FDB can only achieve strict serializability without read locks by keeping track of the read version in addition to the commit version. To ensure this, FDB will only allow a transaction to pass if the read set has not been modified between the time that the transaction reads and wants to commit, as that may cause inconsistent results. So, it’s important to know the read version to know if there have been any other transactions that have modified these keys and been committed since. 

Q4: Snapshot reads differ from standard reads in that they don’t add to the read conflict range, so transactions will succeed even if they are concurrent writes to the snapshot-read keys. We would choose snapshot reads if we prioritized performance and fewer re-tries over strict serializability, such as for data analytics. 

Q5: FDB is able to achieve quick recovery instead of replaying a redo log, because it just has to restore the LogServers and the actual data updates will be asynchronously pulled and updated to the StorageServers over time. This is possible because the StorageServers and LogServers are regularly separated and data modifications are not synchronously updated. So, during recovery, only relevant logs about data mutations have to be transferred from the old LogServers to the new LogServers, which is just a metadata operation.
